# BlackBelt
A quick summary of statistical methods used for my Six Sigma Black Belt project
  In 2008, I had finished six sigma training and completed the exam, but was searching for a final project for certification.   Some months later, I had the opportunity;
a plant manager (my boss) at an employer claimed that cycle counters under my supervision were miscounting raw materials and WIP inventory in the facility, causing 'lost' inventory on the books.  Cycle counters are people who, usually on 2nd shift, will move around a warehouse and sample count inventory to verify materials accuracy.  The process is tedious, expensive, and at the end of the day, non-value added.    The plant manager also claimed to be able to quantify the loss.    
  So, I had responsibility for the cycle counters under my supervision, as well as financial responsibility for inventory levels.
  How should we test the accuracy of the cycle count folks?   ie. How good were the counters at counting?   We would need to compare a randomized sample of their nightly counts agains some standard.    Luckily, I had at my disposal several "All hands on Deck" 100% physical counts, in which everyone came in during Saturdays, or stopped production during the week for a couple days, and counted and audited everything.  This happened alot, perhaps once per month, did I tell you this company was obsessed with their inventory accuracy?)  - I'd also counted 45 bins myself.    Armed with these verified counts, I posed an experiment:  directly AFTER a physical audit,  (before inventory could be consumed for production), I would have cycle counters count a random sample of bin locations without telling them the nature or purpose of the selection.   There were three cycle counters, and a team leader who also counted.   Let's see how they did:
 
